.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Abdelkader Boudih <freebsd@seuros.com>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd June 19, 2026
.Dt FWDV 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fwdv
.Nd AV/C DV capture driver for FireWire camcorders
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "device firewire"
.Cd "device fwdv"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides DV frame capture from AV/C tape devices attached via
IEEE 1394 (FireWire), including DV camcorders, VCRs, and DV converters.
.Pp
The driver attaches to the
.Xr firewire 4
bus and creates
.Pa /dev/fwdvX
at load time.
When an AV/C device is connected, the driver automatically discovers it
and begins receiving IEC 61883 isochronous packets on first open,
assembling complete DV frames.
Applications read raw DV frames from the character device
and control tape transport through
.Xr ioctl 2 .
.Pp
Both NTSC and PAL SD-DV streams are detected from the incoming CIP header.
DVCPRO HD frame sizing is also recognized.
.Sh IOCTLS
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv FWDV_GINFO"
.It Dv FWDV_GINFO Pq Vt "struct fwdv_info"
Return driver state, active ISO channel, detected DV system, frame size,
frame counters, dropped frame count, device EUI-64, and vendor/model strings
from the device configuration ROM.
.It Dv FWDV_PLAY
Send the AV/C play command to tape subunit 0.
.It Dv FWDV_STOP
Send the AV/C stop command to tape subunit 0.
.It Dv FWDV_FFWD
Send the AV/C fast-forward command to tape subunit 0.
.It Dv FWDV_REW
Send the AV/C rewind command to tape subunit 0.
.El
.Sh SYSCTLS
.Bl -tag -width ".Va hw.firewire.fwdv.iso_channel"
.It Va hw.firewire.fwdv.iso_channel
Fallback isochronous receive channel.
The default is 63.
If the device output plug control register reports an active channel, that
device-reported channel is used instead.
This value can be set as a tunable in
.Xr loader.conf 5 .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /dev/fwdvX" -compact
.It Pa /dev/fwdvX
DV capture character device.
Read to obtain raw DV frames.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr firewire 4 ,
.Xr fwohci 4
.Pp
AV/C Digital Interface Command Set General Specification 4.1,
1394 Trade Association Document 2001012.
.Pp
IEC 61883-1 and IEC 61883-2.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Fx 16.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Abdelkader Boudih Aq Mt freebsd@seuros.com
