.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Abdelkader Boudih <freebsd@seuros.com>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd April 18, 2026
.Dt HIDWACOM 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hidwacom
.Nd Wacom ExpressKey Remote driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile this driver into the kernel,
place the following lines in your
kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "device hidwacom"
.Cd "device hidbus"
.Cd "device hid"
.Cd "device evdev"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, to load the driver as a
module at boot time, place the following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
hidwacom_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the Wacom ExpressKey Remote, a wireless
button pad with 18 programmable buttons and a touch ring.
The device communicates via a USB wireless receiver using vendor-specific
HID reports.
.Pp
The driver exposes the following inputs through
.Xr evdev 4 :
.Bl -tag -width "MSC_PULSELED"
.It Dv BTN_0 Ns \(en Ns Dv BTN_Z , Dv BTN_BASE , Dv BTN_BASE2
18 buttons.
.It Dv ABS_WHEEL
Touch ring position (0\(en71).
Reports 0 when the ring is not being touched.
.It Dv ABS_MISC
Touch ring mode (0\(en3), as reported by the device.
Reports 0 when the ring is not being touched.
.It Dv MSC_PULSELED
Battery charge level as a percentage (0\(en100).
.It Dv MSC_SERIAL
Remote serial number, identifying which physical remote generated the event.
.El
.Pp
Only a single paired remote is supported.
The multi-remote pairing protocol (up to 5 remotes) is not implemented.
.Sh HARDWARE
The
.Nm
driver supports the following device:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Wacom ExpressKey Remote (ACK-411050), connected via the Wacom USB
wireless receiver
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/dev/input/eventX" -compact
.It Pa /dev/input/eventX
evdev input device
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr evdev 4 ,
.Xr hidbus 4 ,
.Xr usbhid 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Fx 16.0 .
.Sh BUGS
Only a single paired remote is fully supported.
When multiple remotes are paired, button state may be corrupted as all
remotes share a single evdev device.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Abdelkader Boudih Aq Mt freebsd@seuros.com
.Pp
Protocol decoded from USB traffic analysis.
