.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 The FreeBSD Foundation
.\"
.\" Portions of this software were developed by Aymeric Wibo
.\" <obiwac@freebsd.org> under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.
.\"
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt HRFKILL 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hrfkill
.Nd HID radio control driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd device hrfkill
.Cd device hid
.Cd device hidbus
.Cd device hidmap
.Cd device evdev
In
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Cd hrfkill_load="YES"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for HID wireless radio control buttons,
most often found as an
.Qq airplane mode
or RFKILL toggle on laptop keyboards, and presents them to applications over the
.Ar evdev
interface.
.Sh HARDWARE
The
.Nm
driver supports HID radio control buttons and airplane mode keys
on devices such as:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Framework Laptop Keyboard
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/input/event* -compact
.It Pa /dev/input/event*
input event device node
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hidbus 4 ,
.Xr hsctrl 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in
.Fx 16.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Aymeric Wibo Aq Mt obiwac@freebsd.org
under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation and by
.An Daniel Shaefer Aq Mt git@danielschaefer.me
under sponsorship from Framework Computer Inc.
.Sh CAVEATS
Currently,
.Nm
only handles radio button reporting.
The HID Generic Desktop radio control page also defines radio switches and
status LEDs; support for these should be added in a future revision of the
driver.
.Pp
.Fx
does not yet have a generic RFKILL framework analogous to the one found in
Linux.
As a result,
.Nm
can only report radio button events to userspace via
.Ar evdev ;
the kernel itself has no mechanism to act on these events to block or unblock
wireless devices.
A future RFKILL framework would allow the driver to integrate directly with
network interfaces and block transmitters in response to hardware events.
