.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026, Gordon Bergling <gbe@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.Dd July 10, 2026
.Dt TCP_BBLOG 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tcp_bblog
.Nd TCP Black Box Logging facility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd options TCP_BLACKBOX
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
facility provides structured logging of TCP stack activity for
debugging and performance analysis.
It is implemented in the kernel and allows per-connection tracing
of TCP events with low overhead.
Each TCP endpoint may maintain an internal log buffer recording
events such as packet transmission, reception, retransmissions,
and state transitions.
Unlike earlier debugging mechanisms,
.Nm
records structured metadata without capturing TCP payload data.
Logs are exported to userland via the device
.Pa /dev/tcp_log .
If no process is actively reading from this device, log records
may be discarded.
Each log entry includes:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Connection identifiers, including local and remote addresses and ports
.It
Timestamp information
.It
TCP state and sequence variables
.It
Event-specific metadata
.El
.Pp
Logging may be enabled globally using
.Xr sysctl 8
or on a per-connection basis using
.Xr setsockopt 2
or
.Xr tcpsso 8 .
.Sh MODES
The following logging modes are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "TCP_LOG_STATE_CONTINUAL" -compact
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_OFF
Disable logging.
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_TAIL
Maintain a ring buffer of recent events.
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_HEAD
Log only the initial events of a connection.
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_HEAD_AUTO
Log initial events and automatically export them.
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_CONTINUAL
Continuously log and export events as buffers fill.
.It Dv TCP_LOG_STATE_TAIL_AUTO
Maintain a tail buffer and export on overflow.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
Global configuration is available via
.Xr sysctl 8
under the
.Va net.inet.tcp.bb
namespace.
Notable variables include:
.Bl -tag -width "net.inet.tcp.bb.log_session_limit" -compact
.It Va net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_all
Enable logging consideration for all TCP connections.
.It Va net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_ratio
Select one out of N connections for logging.
.It Va net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_mode
Default logging mode applied automatically.
When set to 1 the last net.inet.tcp.bb.log_session_limit entries
are stored at the TCP endpoint.
This is a good way to capture information when debugging TCP
related panics.
.It Va net.inet.tcp.bb.log_session_limit
Maximum number of log entries per connection.
.It Va net.inet.tcp.bb.log_global_limit
Global limit on allocated log entries.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/var/log/tcplog_dumps" -compact
.It Pa /dev/tcp_log
TCP BBLog device interface
.It Pa /var/log/tcplog_dumps
Default directory for stored log output
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Enable continual logging for all TCP connections:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sysctl net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_all=1
sysctl net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_ratio=1
sysctl net.inet.tcp.bb.log_auto_mode=4
.Ed
.Pp
Enable logging on a specific socket:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
int mode = TCP_LOG_STATE_CONTINUAL;
setsockopt(sd, IPPROTO_TCP, TCP_LOG, &mode, sizeof(mode));
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tcpdump 1 ,
.Xr setsockopt 2 ,
.Xr tcp 4 ,
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr tcpsso 8
.Rs
.%A "Randall Stewart"
.%A "Michael T\(:uxen"
.%T "Adventures in TCP/IP: TCP Black Box Logging"
.%J "FreeBSD Journal"
.%D "May / June 2024"
.%U "https://freebsdfoundation.org/adventures-in-tcp-ip-tcp-black-box-logging/"
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
facility first appeared in
.Fx 13.0
and replaced earlier TCP debugging mechanisms.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
facility was written by
.An -nosplit
.An Randall Stewart Aq Mt rrs@freebsd.org
and
.An Jonathan Looney Aq Mt jtl@freebsd.org
and sponsored by Netflix, Inc.
This manual page was written by
.An Gordon Bergling Aq Mt gbe@FreeBSD.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
Log records may be dropped if userland does not drain
.Pa /dev/tcp_log
fast enough.
TCP payload data is not recorded.
.Sh BUGS
Logging may introduce measurable overhead under high connection rates.
